# [Unlimited Access] BPWin REST API Data User Guide

- Version: v1.2
- Revision History:

| Date | Changes Made |
|----------|----------|
| 06/02/2023 | DEMO meeting held |
| 07/17/2023 | Upgrading API package and optimized endpoints accordingly. |
| 12/05/2023 | Added authentication process. Changing document revision to v1.1 |
| 12/12/2023 | Updated endpoint "/health", "/data/selected-device" <br/> Updated field names in /ws - Socket Status <br/> Updated endpoint /data/job-stats <br/> Specified which endpoints can be used in manual or autohandler mode <br/> Updated Authentication section with code sample <br/> Change document revision to v1.2 | 
| 1/4/2024 | Updated Devkit Program code. |
| 4/1/2024 | Rectified Quick Starter section and started Github repo. |

## Quick Starter with DataPanel.py
### Python requirements
In order to utilize this starter program, some conditions need to be satisfied:
- Python version 3.8 or higher is installed on the computer
- Prerequisite python packages are installed:
  - plotly version 5.20.0
  - streamlit version 1.16.0

### Other setup requirements
- BPWin 8.0.1 or later version is opened on a PC. We call this PC running BPWin the **Server PC**. 
- The **Server PC** should:
  - Be connected to either a BPM APS machine, or at least a programmer site (preferably 9th Gen site, with APS simulation mode turned on)
  - Have an IPV4 address that is accessible by the **Client PC** (The PC running this DataPanel.py). Or the same PC is used as Client PC and Server PC.
- Identify the IPV4 address of the **Server PC**. If the same PC is used as Client PC and Server PC, the IP address is "localhost". **This DataPanel.py is using localhost as the IP Address**.

### Run DataPanel.py
Make sure all listed conditions are satisfied. Start by downloading "DataPanel.py". Edit it according to your settings: 
- Substitute "ip_address" with the Server PC IP address.
- Change "api_version" to the REST API version of BPWin. As for this current document, the BPWin REST API version is "1.2".
- Save the file in an accessible directory on your PC. For example, if the "DataPanel.py" is saved to "C:\", the full file path should be "C:\DataPanel.py".
- Open a cmd line prompt, type the command: ```streamlit run C:\Devkit.py```
- The command window will show the url ```http://localhost:8501```. Normally your default browser will automatically open to show the real-time data panel. If that doesn’t happen, you can copy the url and paste it to your browser to view the panel.

## Authentication Process
This section talks about the authentication process for using the BPWin REST API endpoints. An authentication process prevents any unauthorized access to the BPWin running on your APS machines. 
### Setting Up API Passphrases
To begin using the BPWin API, you need to set up passphrases for each APS machine you intend to connect to. Follow these steps:
- Locate the BP Folder: First, navigate to the BP folder on your computer. 
  - To know where the BP folder is located, open the Registry editor. Go to "Computer\HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\WOW6432Node\BP Microsystems\BPWin\Directory Paths" and look for "BP" in it. Normally the folder should be "C:\BP". 
- Create a Passphrase File: For each APS machine, create a text file with your API passphrase in the BP folder. The name of the text file should be "Auth.txt". You can choose to use the same passphrase for multiple APS machines or set different ones for each. Ensure that the passphrase is secure and not easily guessable. File Requirements:
  - If the file is not present in the BP folder, the BPWin REST API feature will be disabled on that APS machine.
  - If the file is present but empty, it will be considered as opening the BPWin REST API on that machine to HTTP calls from anywhere.
- After you update the passphrase, you need to restart BPWin for it to take effect. 

### Initiating the Connection
Open BPWin as usual. Wait for it to finish initialization. Before making any other API calls, you need to initiate the connection by calling the /auth endpoint. Follow these steps:

- Make the First API Call: Use your preferred programming language or API client to make a GET request to the /auth endpoint of your BPWin. 
Code Example in Python

```python
import requests
response = requests.get("http://192.168.0.121:8080/auth")
print(response.text)
```

Result format

```{ "Number" : 7241978785468376164 }```

The result includes a Random Challenge Number generated by BPWin. BPWin generates this random challenge number and passes it back to your client application as a response. This challenge number changes with every opening of the BPWin. That means, if closing and re-opening BPWin, you need to call /auth again to get a new Random Challenge number. 

### Making API Calls
After successfully initiating the connection, you can start making other API calls. Follow these steps:
- Include Random Challenge Number and Passphrase in request Headers: For each API call, include the random challenge number received during the authentication step in the request headers. Additionally, include your APS machine's passphrase in the headers. Note that both should be in string format, surrounded by “”.
Code Example in Python (calling the /version endpoint): 

```python
import requests
Headers = { "Random-Challenge" : "7241978785468376164", "Passphrase" : "123123" }
response = requests.get("http://192.168.0.121:8080/version", headers = Headers)
print(response.text)
```

Result:
If it succeeds, it will return data from the endpoint. 
```
{
    "API_Version":"1.0",
    "BPWin_Version":"V8.0.0"
}
```

It will show the error message when failed
```
{
    "Success": 0,
    "Message": "Authentication failed. The passphrase or Random Challenge Number is incorrect."
}
```

- BPWin will verify the challenge number and password. If the verification succeeds, BPWin will send the requested data back to your client application, and the API call is completed. If the verification fails, BPWin will return an HTTP 403 error.
- Ensure that you maintain the security of your API passphrases to keep your APS machine interactions secure and reliable.


# API Endpoints
### GET: /health
*Manual* *Autohandler*

Getting whether there is connection to the REST API system of the BPWin. Calling this method checks if the connection to the REST API of BPWin is established. If the call does not return an HTTP code of 200(OK), it means some of the following conditions may not be met. 
BPWin is open. 
BPWin supports REST API functionality. 
The IP address of the PC running BPWin is correct and accessible. 

Result
```
{
    "Success": 1,
    "Message": "BPWin is ready."
}
```

Example in Python
```python
import requests
requests.get("http://[IP Address and Port]/health")
```

### GET: /version
*Manual* *Autohandler*

Getting the version of the REST API system, including API version and BPWin version. For the scope of this documentation, the API version is 1.0.

Result
```
{
    "API_Version": "1.0",
    "BPWin_Version": "V7.0.9 DeviceSupportUpdate.99 (12/21/2022)"
}
```

Example in Python
```python
import requests
requests.get("http://[IP Address and Port]/version")
```

## Job Summary Data
The Data Section consists of REST API endpoints that get data from BPWin through GET requests. The endpoints starting with /data/ can be called right after BPWin initialization, as long as there is data available. The endpoints starting with /data/job/ can only be called during a job session. 

### GET: /data/machine-name
*Manual* *Autohandler*

Get the information of the machine currently identified by BPWin. For an APS machine, the result will include its Type, Description and Serial Number. For a manual site, it will only indicate it’s manual. API functionalities are currently not eligible for manual mode. 

Result(JSON format)
When BPWin is connected with an APS. 
```
{
    "Type": "APS",
    "Description": "4000 APS",
    "Serial_Number": "H4911810120010"
}
```
When only manual sites are attached.
```
{
    "Type": "Manual",
    "Description": null,
    "Serial_Number": null
}
```

Example in Python
```python
import requests
requests.get("http://[IP Address and Port]/data/machine-name")
```

### GET: /data/job-name
*Manual* *Autohandler*

Get the file names associated with this job, including BP, ABP and Data Pattern. For BP and ABP files, there will also be the paths on the PC. 

Result(JSON format)
When the corresponding files are not loaded, the path will indicate "No File Loaded". 
```
{
    "DataPattern_FileName": "No Data Pattern File Loaded",
    "BP_FileName": "No Job File Loaded",
    "ABP_FileName": "No APS Workflow File Loaded"
}
```
When there are corresponding files loaded, the paths of files will be displayed. 
```
{
    "DataPattern_FileName": "APITestDataPattern.bin",
    "BP_FileName": "C:\\APITestFile\\APITestBp.bp",
    "ABP_FileName": "C:\\APITestFile\\APITestAbp.abp"
}
```
Example in Python
```python
import requests
requests.get("http://[IP Address and Port]/data/job-name")
```

### GET: /data/selected-device
*Manual* *Autohandler*

Get the name of the device currently selected in the BPWin instance. 

Result(JSON format)
When there is a job loaded or device selected, there will be a full name same as shown in the BPWin device selector. There are also separated Device and Manufacturer names. 
```
{
    "FullName": "Winbond W25N01GVZEIG",
    "Device": "W25N01GVZEIG",
    "Manufacturer": "Winbond"
}
```
When there is no device selected, the FullName field will show “No Device Selected”. The other fields will be empty. 
```
{
    "FullName": "No Device Selected",
    "Device": "",
    "Manufacturer": ""
}
```

Example in Python
```python
import requests
requests.get("http://[IP Address and Port]/data/selected-device")
```

### GET: /data/job-stats
*Manual* *Autohandler*

Get the statistics of the job session. This data is the same as the job statistics parameters displayed on the BPWin sidebar while a job session is in progress. 
Machine Status: All status available are “Active”, “Idle”, “Paused” and “Error”. 
Light tower status: This includes Red, Amber and Green lights. The data is the same as shown on the physical light tower of the APS machine connected. 

Result(JSON format)
When no job session is in progress, the following message will return. 
```
{
    "Success": 0,
    "Message": "Job statistics are only available when job session is in progress. "
}
```
When BPWin is in manual mode, the format will be as follows.
```
{
    "Job_Yield": 0,
    "Elapsed_Time": "00:00:02",
    "Passed_Device": 3,
    "Failed_Device": 0,
    "Active_Device": 0,
    "Remaining_Device": 17
}
```

When BPWin is in autohandler mode, the format will be as follows. 
```
{
    "Machine_Status": "Active",
    "Red_Light_On": "false",
    "Amber_Light_On": "false",
    "Green_Light_On": "true",
    "Job_Yield": 0,
    "Elapsed_Time": "00:00:01",
    "Remaining_Time": "--:--:--",
    "Idle_Time": "00:00:00",
    "Actual_DPH": 0,
    "Potential_DPH": 0,
    "Passed_Device": 1,
    "Failed_Device": 0,
    "Active_Device": 0,
    "Remaining_Device": 19
}
```

Example in Python
```python
import requests
requests.get("http://[IP Address and Port]/data/job-stats")
```

### GET: /data/system-info
*Manual* *Autohandler*

Returns a JSON string that describes the system’s current hardware and software configuration. The “system” for which this method returns information about includes the BPWin application, the currently-connected programmer, and the currently-connected Automated Programming System (APS).
See Appendix A for more information.

Example in Python
```python
import requests
requests.get("http://[IP Address and Port]/data/system-info")
```

# Websocket Endpoint - Real-time status
/ws
*Manual* *Autohandler*
This endpoint utilizes Websocket technology. It keeps the connection between the client and BPWin and pushes BPWin real-time status to the client. 
Events in BPWin monitored by this endpoint are listed as follows. 

## Monitored Events and Results(JSON format)
### Data Pattern Status
Applicable to Data Pattern Load operation only. There are only 2 kinds of "Status" at the moment: "Complete" and "Fail". "Progress" shows the percentage of progress. Right now only "0" corresponding to "Fail" and "100" corresponding to "Complete" will show up. 
```
{
    "Category" : "Event",
    "Note" : "DataPattern",
    "Operation": "Load",
    "Progress": "100",
    "Status": "Complete",
    "Timestamp": "2023-01-25 13:13:43 -0600"
}
```

### Job File Status
Applicable to Load and Save operations of BP and ABP files. The possible "Status" are "Complete" and "Fail". 
```
{
    "Category" : "Event",
    "Note" : "JobFile" ,
    "Directory": "C:\APITestFile\APITestAbp.abp",
    "Operation": "Load",
    "Status": "Complete",
    "Timestamp": "2023-01-25 13:15:46 -0600"
}
```

### Job Session Status
The following result indicates a job session begins. 
```
{
    "Category" : "Event",
    "Note" : "Job" ,
    "Status" : "Begin" ,
    "Timestamp" : "2023-01-26 09:48:10 -0600" 
}
```

A Successful completion of the job session will show Code 0.
```
{
    "Category" : "Event",
    "Note" : "Job" ,
    "Code" : "0" ,
    "Status" : "Complete" ,
    "Timestamp" : "2023-01-26 09:52:02 -0600" 
}
```

Soft Abort shows Code 1000. 
```
{
    "Category" : "Event",
    "Note" : "Job" ,
    "Code" : "1000" ,
    "Status" : "Complete" ,
    "Timestamp" : "2023-01-26 09:50:03 -0600" 
}
```

Hard Abort shows Code 1001.
```
{
    "Category" : "Event",
    "Note" : "Job" ,
    "Code" : "1001" ,
    "Status" : "Complete" ,
    "Timestamp" : "2023-01-26 09:55:33 -0600" 
}
```

### Socket Status
Whenever there is a change to the Socket Status, there will be a notification. There are 3 categories of socket status during job sessions that will show up in the notification: "Active", "Pass" and "Fail". 
Note that the Site and Socket numbers are 1-based. Socket 1 corresponds to Socket A in BPWin. 

The following result shows up for a "Socket Active" notification.
```
{
    "APS Serial Number": "H3911910180556",
    "Category": "Event",
    "DP Checksum": "F402D078h",
    "Note": "SocketStatus",
    "Site_SN": "43196",
    "Site_Socket": "3A",
    "Socket_PartNumber": "FVE4ASM08MLPA",
    "Socket_SN": "A002CAB5",
    "Status": "Active",
    "Timestamp": "2023-12-08 17:08:16 -0600"
}
```

The following result will show up for "Socket Pass" or "Socket Fail", with an extra field called "ResultCode". ResultCode 0 means Pass. A complete list of possible ResultCode can be found in Appendix B. 
```
{
    "APS Serial Number": "H3911910180556",
    "Category": "Event",
    "DP Checksum": "F402D078h",
    "Note": "SocketStatus",
    "ResultCode": "0",
    "Site_SN": "43196",
    "Site_Socket": "3A",
    "Socket_PartNumber": "FVE4ASM08MLPA",
    "Socket_SN": "A002CAB5",
    "Status": "Pass",
    "Timestamp": "2023-12-08 17:09:12 -0600"
}
```

Example in Python
The following code sample calls the websocket endpoint on BPWin and keeps the connection. While the connection is alive, whenever BPWin pushes a notification, the python script will print it out. 

```python
import asyncio
import websockets
import threading

async def websocket_handler():
    websocket_url = 'ws://[IP Address and Port]/ws'

    async with websockets.connect(websocket_url) as websocket:
        while True:
            message = await websocket.recv()
            print('Received:', message)
            
def run_websocket_handler():
    loop = asyncio.new_event_loop()
    asyncio.set_event_loop(loop)
    loop.run_until_complete(websocket_handler())
    loop.close()
            
if __name__ == "__main__":
    websocket_thread = threading.Thread(target=run_websocket_handler)
    websocket_thread.start()

    # Keep the main thread running to allow WebSocket thread to continue
    while True:
        pass
```








